# ICSE Submission Eye-Tracking-ChatGPT-Experiment
## Overview
This repository contains the collected eye-tracking data and the quantitative analysis notebooks from the eye tracking experiment involving programming students at different academic levels to understand their programming behavior while using ChatGPT. The end goal of the collection of this dataset was to use it for analysis to uncover insights about key best practices as well as pitfall in the programming process with the emergence of LLM-powered coding assistants like ChatGPT (Refer to the ICSE Submission). The data consists of quantitative eye tracking measurements for different eye gaze features for 26 participants so far. These participants belong to five academic categories, namely: Sophomores, juniors, seniors, graduates, and finally Ph.D. students. Each one of these participants contributed to the data collection by attempting to solve four programming questions. The eye tracking data includes the eye fixations features, the eye gaze features, and finally the saccades features. It was collected at 60 frames per second using a SmartEye AI-X. Each participant was allowed an unlimited timeframe to provide their programming solution with Python, and was allowed to use only ChatGPT to solve the problem.  The collected data was processed taking into consideration two defined area of interest distributions (The Google Colab interface AOI, and the ChatGPT interface AOI as can be referred to in the ICSE Submission). This enabled the extraction of metrics specifically tailored for each AOI.
## Dataset Collection Methods
The collected data is from an experimental study that used eye tracking to measure the visual attention behavior of programming students while programming.  Eye-tracking data was collected using a SmartEye AI-X eye tracker and iMotions version 9.0 software to track eye movements with a frequency of 60 Hz (±1 Hz). iMotions calculates gaze and fixation durations according to the eye micro-saccades. Micro-saccades represent movements that are much shorter in the distance that is covered compared to normal saccades, at around 15 arcminutes. The fixations algorithm used by iMotions is the I-VT (Velocity-Threshold Identification) Fixation Filter algorithm where the gap fill-in option/interpolation is disabled. The noise reduction is also disabled. Regarding the fixations filter parameters, the window length is 20 milliseconds, and the velocity threshold is equal to 30 degrees per seconds. The merger of adjacent fixations is disabled and the discard of short fixations is also disabled. The data was collected in real-time while students were programming with the assistance of ChatGPT. A total of 104 different programming samples were collected, where 26 different participants from five academic levels who programmed 4 different programming tasks each. Each participant was allowed an unlimited time duration to solve the task with the assistance of ChatGPT. 
## Repository Content
We list here all the folders and directories within the repository and what they contain:
- **Dataset**: This directory contains the dataset in which the eye tracking features are measured according to the ChatGPT vs. Google Colab Areas of Interest (AOIs) distribution described in the ICSE submission.
  - *IndividualAOImetrics.csv*: The eye tracking features are aggregated per participant for each of the two AOIs.
- **Notebooks**: This directory contains Python Notebooks used for obtaining the results and figures showcased in the ICSE submission
  - *ICSE1.ipynb*: This notebook contains th analysis for obtaining the quantitative results figure.
  - *ICSE2.ipynb*: This notebook contains th analysis for obtaining the quantitative results statistical test.
